[WEBSITE-497] Add documentation to run Jenkins on Java 11 (#2097)
jenkins-infra/jenkins.io: content/doc/administration/requirements/jenkins-on-java-11.adoc

> ---

Author: it would be easier to change it will in the PR state. What do you have in mind?

layout: documentation
title: Running Jenkins on Java 11
---

If you need to upgrade the JVM version used to run Jenkins from Java 8 to Java 11, please link:/doc/administration/requirements/upgrade-java-guidelines[follow this guidelines].

> NOTE: At this moment, it is not required to upgrade the JVM version in order to run a Jenkins core more recent than ``2.164+``footnote:[It was possible to run Jenkins on Java 11 since the version `2.155` but its usage was then more complex. We do not recommend to use any version prior to `2.164`.].

Reviewer: This note is mixed AFAICT. First sentence tells that Jenkins still supports Java 8, this is good. Regarding the rest, I am not sure it is really needed. It might be better to just say that the guidelines apply to Jenkins 2.164+ in the paragraph above

Author: The footnote is really displayed at the end of the page, shouldn't be a problem.

For the sake of simplicity, we will describe next how to run Jenkins on Java 11 with the most recent version of Jenkins.

NOTE: We do encourage you to only use LTS versions for production purposes. 
At the time of this writing, there is no LTS version with Java 11 Support.

== Running Jenkins with Docker

The easiest way to run Jenkins on Java 11 is to use the Docker image.
All these images are based on the official link:https://hub.docker.com/r/_/openjdk/[openjdk:11-jdk] image maintained by the Docker Community.

You can choose these Java 11 based images by using the `jdk11` tag (for the latest weekly release) or by suffixing the tag to use with `-jdk11` (eg. `2.164-jdk11`).

This is the command to use, in order to start a Jenkins running on Java 11: 

[source, shell]
----
docker pull jenkins/jenkins:jdk11
docker run --rm -ti \
  -p 8080:8080 -p 50000:50000
  -v jenkins-home:/var/jenkins_home \
  jenkins/jenkins:jdk11
----

== Running Jenkins with Java

> It is also possible to run Jenkins using the `java` command.

Reviewer: I would be explicit that it is 100% similar to how Jenkins runs with Java 8

Author: ```suggestion
It is also possible to run Jenkins using the `java` command, just like with Java 8.
```

Starting Jenkins would be:

[source, shell]
----

> java -jar jenkins.war

Reviewer: ```suggestion
java -jar jenkins.war --httpPort=8080
```

To make the result similar to Docker

Author: By default, port when not specifiied is `8080`, no? I tried to make it over simplified to show it's easy. In the end, we should never start Jenkins this way manually.

Reviewer: yes, it is right

  jenkins/jenkins:jdk11
----

== Running Jenkins with Java

It is also possible to run Jenkins using the `java` command.

Starting Jenkins would be:

[source, shell]
----
java -jar jenkins.war
----

== Discovering issues with Java 11

Between June 2018 and February 2019, the community performed many exploratory tests to try to discover as many issues related to Java 11 as possible.
The result of this is that the community solved a lot of problems before announcing the support of Java 11 by Jenkins.
However, it is still possible that some plugins are not yet compatible with Java 11.

In order to track this, we have created a new link:https://wiki.jenkins.io/display/JENKINS/Known+Java+11+Compatibility+issues[Known Java 11 Compatibility Issues] Wiki page.

If you discover any Java 11 incompatibilities, please link:https://wiki.jenkins.io/display/JENKINS/How+to+report+an+issue[report issues in our bugtracker].
Please set `java11-compatibility` labels for such issues so that they automatically appear on the Wiki page and get triaged.

For the security issues please use the standard link:https://jenkins.io/security/#reporting-vulnerabilities[vulnerability reporting process].

> Although we will be fixing Java 11 specific issues in public while it is in the preview, following the security process will help us to investigate impact on Java 8 users.

Reviewer 2: I think that last part must now be removed, even more given now since yesterday 2.164 is the candidate for next LTS.
WDYT @oleg-nenashev @daniel-beck ?

Author: I removed the line entirely.

---
layout: documentation
title: Running Jenkins on Java 11
---

If you need to upgrade the JVM version used to run Jenkins from Java 8 to Java 11, please link:/doc/administration/requirements/upgrade-java-guidelines[follow this guidelines].

NOTE: At this moment, it is not required to upgrade the JVM version in order to run a Jenkins core more recent than `2.155`.

> Since Jenkins `2.155`, it is possible to run Jenkins with Java 11.

Reviewer 2: I think I would make the explanation shorter: strongly discourage users from using/staying on [2.155,2.163( when using Java 11. (Also, use LTS anyway if you're not already updating Jenkins at least twice a month, have a staging env, etc. :))

Author: I didn't speak about any LTS because at this time, there is none. I'd prefer we update the documentation when we have a LTS.

Reviewer 2: Yeah, sorry for the noise, forget about my sentence between parentheses.

Author: I'm adding a `NOTE` to speak about LTS but without any version yet.

However, it was greatly simplified since version `2.163`. 
For the sake of simplicity, we will describe next how to run Jenkins on Java 11 with the most recent version of Jenkins.

== Running Jenkins with Docker

The easiest way to run Jenkins on Java 11 is to use the Docker image.

> Since the weekly release `2.155`, each weekly releases were also packaged on a Java 11 ready Docker image.

Reviewer 3: ...each weekly release has also been packaged as a Java 11 ready Docker image.

Author: ```suggestion
Since the weekly release `2.155`, each weekly release has also been packaged on a Java 11 ready Docker image.
```

All these images are based on the official link:https://hub.docker.com/r/_/openjdk/[openjdk:11-jdk] image maintained by the Docker Community.

You can choose these Java 11 based images by using the `jdk11` tag (for the latest weekly release) or by suffixing the tag to use with `-jdk11` (eg. `2.163-jdk11`).

This is the command to use, in order to start a Jenkins running on Java 11: 

[source, shell]
----
docker pull jenkins/jenkins:jdk11
docker run --rm -ti \
  -p 8080:8080 -p 50000:50000
  -v jenkins-home:/var/jenkins_home \
  jenkins/jenkins:jdk11
----

== Running Jenkins with Java

It is also possible to run Jenkins using the `java` command.

However, we need to take some precaution with this method, because some plugins are using classes in the package `java.sql.*`.

> This package was modularized since Java 9, which means the claases inside this package are not accessible out-of-the-box.

Reviewer 3: claases should be classes

Author: ```suggestion
This package was modularized since Java 9, which means the clases inside this package are not accessible out-of-the-box.
```

We need to open this module with the `java` parameter `--add-modules java.sql`.
It is the case for example of plugin:pipeline-maven[Pipeline Maven integration] plugin but others are using classes from this package as well.

Starting Jenkins would be:

[source, shell]
----
java \
  --add-modules java.sql \
  -jar jenkins.war
----

== Discovering issues with Java 11

> Since June 2018 to February 2019, the community performed many exploratory tests to try to discover as many issues related to Java 11 as possible.

Reviewer 3: Between June 2018 and February 2019,

Author: ```suggestion
Between June 2018 and February 2019, the community performed many exploratory tests to try to discover as many issues related to Java 11 as possible.
```

---
layout: documentation
title: Running Jenkins on Java 11
---

If you need to upgrade the JVM version used to run Jenkins from Java 8 to Java 11, please link:/doc/administration/requirements/upgrade-java-guidelines[follow this guidelines].

NOTE: At this moment, it is not required to upgrade the JVM version in order to run a Jenkins core more recent than `2.155`.

Since Jenkins `2.155`, it is possible to run Jenkins with Java 11.

> However, it was greatly simplified since version `2.163`. 

Author: I removed it in https://github.com/jenkins-infra/jenkins.io/pull/2097/commits/988642e89d9c9f59674dba9de7d24ebe9dc4e827

> However, it was greatly simplified since version `2.163`. 

Reviewer 4: What I meant is that I could think I can run Jenkins 2.163 without params, but actually, it needs `--enable-future-java`. It's not said that running with the `java` command only works as of 2.164. We should say what you need to run in 2.163 or just assume, that the first java11-full-supported version is the 2.164, well, perhaps _java11-easy-supported_ version :wink:

> However, it was greatly simplified since version `2.163`. 

Author: I stated [here](https://github.com/jenkins-infra/jenkins.io/pull/2097/files#diff-8885f246113bf709b2ad52efd631a80cR13) that it's from `2.155` but easier since `2.163`. I might update the all documentation to say `2.164`. And in general, this documentation will need to be updated to use LTS version once we have LTS GA.

> However, it was greatly simplified since version `2.163`. 

Reviewer 2: +1. IMO, only talk about 2.164+, and use `footnote:[to provide the full story]`

> However, it was greatly simplified since version `2.163`. 

Author: footnote provided in https://github.com/jenkins-infra/jenkins.io/pull/2097#discussion-diff-254974278R13

For the sake of simplicity, we will describe next how to run Jenkins on Java 11 with the most recent version of Jenkins.

> NOTE: We do encourage you to only use LTS versions for production purpose. 

Reviewer 3: for production purposes.

Author: ```suggestion
NOTE: We do encourage you to only use LTS versions for production purposes. 
```

> At the time this documentation is writen, there is no LTS version with Java 11 Support.

Reviewer 3: Instead of "At the time this documentation is writen" I would use "At the time of this writing"

Author: ```suggestion
At the time of this writing, there is no LTS version with Java 11 Support.
```

== Running Jenkins with Docker

The easiest way to run Jenkins on Java 11 is to use the Docker image.

> Since the weekly release `2.155`, each weekly release has also been packaged on a Java 11 ready Docker image.

Reviewer 2: There is some repetition around "since the weekly release 2.155" here and above on L10. Also, I'm not sure now where I wrote that I think basically we should only put 2.164+, and leave the rest for historians (IOW 2.155+ partly, etc. in footnotes :)).

All these images are based on the official link:https://hub.docker.com/r/_/openjdk/[openjdk:11-jdk] image maintained by the Docker Community.

> You can choose these Java 11 based images by using the `jdk11` tag (for the latest weekly release) or by suffixing the tag to use with `-jdk11` (eg. `2.163-jdk11`).

Reviewer 2: Can you make a pass to replace all 163 by 164?

Author: ```suggestion
You can choose these Java 11 based images by using the `jdk11` tag (for the latest weekly release) or by suffixing the tag to use with `-jdk11` (eg. `2.164-jdk11`).
```

This is the command to use, in order to start a Jenkins running on Java 11: 

[source, shell]
----
docker pull jenkins/jenkins:jdk11
docker run --rm -ti \
  -p 8080:8080 -p 50000:50000
  -v jenkins-home:/var/jenkins_home \
  jenkins/jenkins:jdk11
----

== Running Jenkins with Java

It is also possible to run Jenkins using the `java` command.

However, we need to take some precaution with this method, because some plugins are using classes in the package `java.sql.*`.
This package was modularized since Java 9, which means the classes inside this package are not accessible out-of-the-box.
We need to open this module with the `java` parameter `--add-modules java.sql`.

> It is the case for example of plugin:pipeline-maven[Pipeline Maven integration] plugin but others are using classes from this package as well.

Reviewer 2: I suppose you sure about that, but I thought this issue was not present anymore in "standard" Jenkins (i.e. not PCT, JFR, etc.), and you weren't able to reproduce this anymore.

Author: you are correct. I need to remove all this section.

Starting Jenkins would be:

[source, shell]
----

> java \

Author: same

  --add-modules java.sql \
  -jar jenkins.war
----

== Discovering issues with Java 11

Between June 2018 and February 2019, the community performed many exploratory tests to try to discover as many issues related to Java 11 as possible.

> The result of this is that the community solved a lot of problem before anouncing the support of Java 11 by Jenkins.

Reviewer 3: solved a lot of problems.  Also announcing has 2 n's.

Author: ```suggestion
The result of this is that the community solved a lot of problems before announcing the support of Java 11 by Jenkins.
```
